This page is a draft, patcher not released yet!

=Datapatcher start document=

For databending we wanted to have a central patcher to allow visitors to patch different in and output streams themself. This way the whole event would be interactive and a lot more surprising for the builders.

Startingpoint was the excellent Illucia router by Paperkettle. The problem with with the router was the fact that all the in and output where hardcoded. We needed a more dynamic flow where installations would register themselfs and create connections.

We also dumbed the concept down a litte bit to keep clear for non technical visitors. Every installation is allow input from one other installation.

So if you have a pachtable pong game and have inputs to control the Y positions of both the paddles. You could only patch them from a single source. So Pong will gets all his signals from the patchable space invaders.

ILLUSTRATION

Possible:
space invader -> Pong
	      -> Frogger 

Not possible

space invader -> Pong
Frogger       ->

==Adress naming==
For this to work we have put up some adressnaming rules so the patcher understands what's coming in. The syntax is as follows

{{{nameOfInstallation/(in/out)/nalueName }}}

Itś broken down in:
nameOfInstallation: The name of your art installation, software, hardware
(in/out): If it's an input or an output. /in/ are the adresses you're listening to, /out/ are the adresses you're sending from.
ValueName: could be everything, but's it nice if it would be a little descriptive.

==PatchAction==
Next to the in/out adresses there also a special command type called patchAction.